Welcome to session 731,
Internet Application Development.
My name is Ursula Ringham.
I'm a partnership manager here at
Apple Computers Developer Group.
Today's session is going to
cover Macromedia Central.
It's a new product that they'll
be releasing later this year.
We have two people from Macromedia's
development team for Central,
David Calaprice and Michael Williams,
and we have a third-party
developer who's created some
applications that work with Central,
Alex Wright.
So now I'll turn this
over to Dave Calaprice.
- Thanks Ursula.
All right.
So here we're gonna teach you a
little bit about Macromedi Central.
We're currently in beta right now.
It's a new product under development.
So, let's see here.
So what you're going to
learn about is Central.
It's this new environment
for Internet-enabled apps.
And we're going to talk about
also how Macromedia in general
views Internet applications.
So what we're going to learn is,
we're going to get a little bit of a
situation overview of kind of where
the state is of apps in general,
and talk about Central,
and of course the process for
developing apps for Central.
We're going to talk
about rich Internet apps,
XML, SOAP, WSDL, and Force Flash.
So first of all,
a little bit about the vision,
Macromedias vision currently.
Our vision right now is
all about experiences.
We feel that great experiences
build great businesses.
And this doesn't just pertain
to application development,
it pertains to pretty much anything.
Whether you're going out to see a movie
or drive a car or get a cup of coffee,
people will pay more and
expect great experiences.
So Macromedia is all about helping
people deliver on these experiences.
So, in order to do that,
we are promoting this idea of what
we call rich Internet applications,
which has become very popular lately.
What they attempt to do is combine the
best of traditional desktop applications,
so we're talking about things like
the usability and user interface that
you get with desktop applications,
the availability of desktop applications,
you can always access them regardless
of whether you are connected or not,
and also the integration
with the operating system.
As well as the best of web applications.
Web applications are great
at accessibility to data.
They're connected,
you can always have the
most up-to-date information.
And also communication.
We're trying to see a
lot of communication used
in applications lately,
and this is also something that
we feel is really important to
improve the user experience.
So we're talking about things like
not just text-based chat and IM,
but also two-way or
N-way video and online.
So all of these things sort of
combine together to make what
we call rich Internet apps.
What is Central and what are
the issues that it addresses?
Right now,
most of the Internet is document-centric.
Essentially, this has grown out of
the history of the web,
based on HTML and the web browser.
Most websites are page-based
and document-centric,
and so most applications as well are
also document-centric and page-based.
You often have to click through
multiple pages to perform a task.
This was a step backwards from
the early '90s or even late '80s,
when you had much more rich user
interfaces in desktop applications.
Another problem that Central is trying
to address as an application platform
is that the installation of applications
from the Internet is often very clumsy.
Typically,
if you want to install an application,
you have to download an executable file,
find out where you downloaded
it to on your desktop,
double-click it, maybe run an installer,
go through a few screens,
and also have to worry about, "Oh,
did I just download a virus?"
or something like that.
So this is also a problem that
we're trying to solve with Central.
Additionally,
applications in general don't
work very well together.
Unless they were designed
ahead of time to cooperate,
such as in a studio or suite,
applications are pretty much
developed as independent silos,
and apart from maybe copy and paste,
there's very little interaction
between these applications.
They have very little
way of sharing data.
And so that's also something that
we're trying to improve with Central.
Next, offline use.
Typically, web applications,
if you go to a shopping application or
any sort of application on the Internet,
if you are disconnected,
if you become disconnected from the net,
that information is no
longer available to you.
Browser pretty much becomes useless
if you're no longer connected.
And so that's also something that
we're trying to solve with Central.
And finally,
applications often have many different
ways of notifying the user of events.
Some bounce the icon in the dock,
other ones bring up little windows,
and so there's not really very much
consistency about how events are
essentially communicated to the end user.
And so we're trying to also
provide some consistency in a
framework for notification as well.
So just going back to the
basics of what Central is,
it's an environment for collecting
and managing applications.
We call it United because the
applications work together cooperatively,
and unplugged,
meaning that you can stay productive even
when you don't have a web connection.
From the customer's point of view,
what's good about Central?
It combines the best of desktop
interactivity and the availability and
usability of desktop apps with web-based
deployment and the ability to always have
up-to-date information from the Internet.
The applications in Central are
cooperative and can work
together and share data.
This delivers a much more efficient
experience for the customer.
Rather than having to go to
one application and get a
result from one application,
for example,
if you're doing some shopping and
you want to look up information on a
product and then have to go to another
site to find a review on that product,
that's an inefficient workflow.
With Central,
the applications can work together
and actually share this data,
even if they weren't designed to
work together when they were built.
Fast and easy installation.
I mentioned before the clumsy nature
of the installation process currently
for applications on desktop platforms.
With Central,
you can build an application and
with a single click from a web page,
it can be installed and running
on an end user's machine.
This sort of mechanism also leads
into this try-buy mechanism,
which I'm going to talk about here.
There's a commerce system
also built into Central.
This is a very important
aspect of the platform.
As a developer,
you can create an application,
post it on your website,
and connect with our commerce system and
sell your application and get money fed
into your own merchant account without
having to set up all the infrastructure,
handle all the credit card,
transaction processing,
that kind of thing all by yourself.
That's the infrastructure that Macromedia
provides as part of building for Central.
Because of the trial
system and the try-buy,
the purchase system is built in Central,
it's consistent across all of
the different applications,
the third-party apps and Macromedia
applications that run inside of Central.
The end user has sort of
an expected experience.
They're not going to be afraid of
trying to download new applications,
try them out, purchase them, and so on.
They have to be afraid of different
types of purchase mechanisms,
something that they can trust.
Finally, you can use applications
online and offline.
This is, of course,
up to the application developer
to support both modes,
but since Central is not
tied to a web browser,
you can actually have applications that
store data for offline use and make that
available when you're even not connected.
And finally,
applications built for Central will
run on OS X as well as Windows and
also in the future handheld devices.
And they're all based on
the Flash Player technology.
So to develop for Macromediacentral,
you just use Macromediaflash MX,
which is our shipping
flash authoring tool,
and the Central SDK,
which is currently in beta right now
and then later this summer or early fall
will be available for public release.
You use existing components that ship
with Flash and also other components,
UI widgets and other types of components
that are available from third parties.
You can use those as well as some
additional components that we've built
just for Central to provide a consistent
look and feel across applications.
Also, you can build on top of web
services and other structured data.
So Central includes built-in
native support for SOAP and WSDL,
so you can use web services directly from
the Central client to talk to a server.
And the environment,
as I mentioned before,
it's all built on Flash technology.
So if you can develop for Flash,
then you can develop for Central.
So, as a developer,
you have the benefits of a very
widely supported development tool.
There's built-in support for
the transaction infrastructure,
for download and
installation of applications,
services for exchanging data to servers,
as well as between applications
running locally on the client,
as well as auto-updating technology.
So,
if you build an application for Central,
and then a few months down the road
you want to push out a new version,
all that infrastructure is
already there for you in Central,
and so you don't have to do any
special work to support auto-update.
and finally, Macromedias is going to
provide an application finder,
which is a global directory
of all of the applications out
there available for try and buy.
And you can become listed in
this application directory
called the app finder,
and then everybody who has
Central has this directory always
available on their machine as part
of the Central runtime environment.
So if they're out there
looking for new applications,
they can find them,
and we'll show you a little bit of a
demo of that in a screenshot in a minute.
So it's a really good way to get
exposure to your application.
And of course, the benefits of just being
based on the Flash technology,
the ubiquity of the Flash player is
distributed to virtually all desktop
systems over the last few years.
So, people who have the current Flash 6
player already have the capability
for downloading and installing
Central and Central applications.
And so,
there's already some millions of end
users out there with that capability.
There's a community of 750,000
Flash developers worldwide today.
So, there's a very large developer
base and a support network set up
for people developing for Flash.
You've got the portability across
platforms that I mentioned before,
as well as the ease of development
of the Flash and the space-efficient
file format and architecture.
And finally,
Flash is a multimedia player.
And so,
in addition to all that other good stuff,
you've got support for things like video,
audio, animation, you know,
anti-aliased vector graphics, images,
interactivity, and so on.
and so on.
Here's a screenshot of the
user interface of Central.
What you see here in the main window
is what we call the application window.
This is the main area where
applications inside Central run.
At the very top,
you'll see a toolbar with icons on it.
That's the launcher area.
Each application you install has
an icon and it becomes listed at
the top there in that toolbar.
The end user simply clicking on
that icon launches the application.
You can bring up multiple of
these applications if you want,
just like a web browser.
It's a very simple,
easy-to-use interface.
You get an icon, you click on it,
and it runs the application.
The rest of the space in that window
is for the application itself to run.
That's up to you as a developer to decide
whatever you want to put in that space.
Like I said before,
we'll be providing a set of components
that you can use to handle a lot of the
common user interface functionality.
On the right side of the screen
is what we call the console.
This is a toolbar that can
display optionally small,
miniature versions of these
applications that can be there
as a persistent presence on the
user's desktop as an option.
For example,
here we've got a traffic camera showing
all the time and a weather satellite map.
You can imagine other types of things
like stock tickers or news information,
other types of feeds,
they can run as little
tiles in this toolbar.
This is also where
notifications appear as well.
If an application wants to
present a notice to the user
that some event has occurred,
a price of a product that
they're interested in has
dropped to a certain amount,
then the notices can appear
there in the console as well.
These windows can be open
or closed independently.
You don't have to have
any of these windows open.
It can just be running in the background,
or you can be interacting in
the main application space,
or you can just have that console
up if you just want to have a small
bit of real estate used to show
this information on your desktop.
on your desktop.
So those are the basic
elements of the central UI.
So as far as the installation goes,
I mentioned before,
you can install directly from a website.
So here's an example of,
there's a company called Price Grabber,
which has a shopping site that
lets you compare prices for
different products online.
And we've been working with them to
build an application for Central.
And so here's an example of what
their website could look like with
a Central installation button on it.
So essentially,
all you have to do is put a
small Flash movie in your website
with a button on it to install.
All the user has to do
is click that button.
If they don't have Central installed,
it's automatically
downloaded and installed.
Then the application itself is
automatically downloaded and installed,
and then it's launched.
This all happens in a matter
of a couple of seconds,
and then they're up and running with
the application outside of the browser.
So that's installing from a web page.
And then the alternative is you can also
install from the application finder.
And this probably isn't too
easy to see with this display,
but it's essentially a
directory of applications.
And the end user can sort
by different categories.
There's a whole rating system
where people can provide feedback
to applications and rate them.
You get all the information on
whether it's a free application,
how much it costs,
what the length of the trial period is,
and so on.
So there's different ways
to browse through the whole
directory of applications.
And this is available, like I said,
as a built-in component
of Central for all users.
And there will also be a
version of this on a website,
so you can access it even
outside of Central if you want.
So next I'm going to
bring up Alex Wright,
who is an independent developer.
He's been working with us since
the conception of Central,
helping develop applications
and helping design the look
and feel of our applications.
And he's going to give some
demonstrations of some apps
running inside Central.
Okay, great.
Thanks Alex.
Thanks Dave.
[Transcript missing]
Dave already gave you
a preview of the UI.
I'll just let this load quickly.
That's price grabber.
Let me start over here.
Okay.
So you see here's the application window.
Here's the console.
And we've got a couple of applications
loaded into the app finder here.
So what I'm going to do first
is just walk you through a
couple of the applications and
sort of show you how they work.
So we'll come back to the
app finder later maybe.
But I'll start with
one for price grabber,
which Dave showed you
sort of a snapshot of.
So, again, price grabber is one of these
services that provides comparative
pricing data on consumer products.
So they have something like
-- I think it's something like
15,000 products in their catalog.
And they get prices from a lot of
different retailers on a daily basis.
And you can get sort of like MySignment
or there's several services like that.
And their business model
is they basically syndicate
this data to other sites,
like I think Lycos, for example.
Lycos uses them.
A few others do.
So really while they do have a website
that you can go and search for prices on,
what they're really in the business
of is syndicating this pricing data.
So what we wanted to do was see if
we could create sort of a better
interface to comparative pricing
data using the central environment.
And this is what we come up with.
This is actually sort
of a first build of it.
We're actually working on a next build
that will actually be a little more
sophisticated and have some new features.
But I'll show you some
of the basics here.
So one thing I can do
here is just do a search.
So let's say I wanted
to search for an iBook.
So I'm going to click the submit button.
And what's happening here is
the application is parsing a
request that gets sent out via
HTTP to the PriceGrabber server.
What happens is the PriceGrabber
server responds with an XML file that
we read into the application that
contains all the data that you see here.
So basically what it came back with
was three matches for Apple iBook.
And what it's showing me is the
best price for each of them.
And they'll get, I think,
up to like 20 different prices.
But at least in our application,
we'll show you the best price.
And then it shows you sort of where
that search result fits in this product
hierarchy or taxonomy that they've got,
which I can also browse around
and explore here if I want to.
So for instance, we can do this.
So you can see it's pretty responsive.
Every time I'm clicking on
something on the screen,
it's sending a request off to
PriceGrabber and bringing a dataset back.
You can see just in the process
of sort of clicking around here,
This is a much more efficient
interaction than it would be,
say,
in a web browser where you'd have to go,
you know,
web page to web page to web page,
get a whole chunk of HTML back
with every one of these requests.
Basically, with Central,
we're able to put together a request
and very efficiently just request the
exact pieces of data that we want to
get back and read into the application.
A couple other things we can do
with using some of the standard
components that Macromedias developed.
This is one called the
Data Grid that lets me do sorting.
Very simple, very familiar sort of
desktop OS convention.
But again, if you compare this to the
experience in a web browser,
there's no easy way to do this in a web
browser without going off to a server,
whereas this is all happening
locally inside the application.
Oops.
We didn't see that.
Okay, so as I'm going through here,
I'll just move on through
the application a little bit.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, and here we go.
Okay,
so here's another feature of Central.
It remembered where I was
when I just shut down and
came back to the application.
It preserves the state,
remembers exactly where you left
the application when you come back.
So let's see if I can
pick up where I left off,
okay.
So as I go through and
browse through these items,
you can see what's appearing down in
the preview pane is sort of a thumbnail
image displaying the product shot,
some basic data about the product specs.
We also get user reviews that are
also provided by PriceGrabber.
Now, if I see a product that I like,
I can add it to my favorites list.
And what happens here is it gets added.
You can see it switch to another
tab here where I can keep sort
of a short list of products.
We're also creating a feature
where you'll be able to
set a price notification.
So if the price drops,
you can get a notification
in Central that will tell
you that the price went down.
So those are just a couple
of things you can do with it.
And another thing we're working on is
the ability to do sort of more advanced
searching based on specs and filter,
you know, basically looking at different
criteria or specs around a product,
being able to do more advanced
searching and filtering around it.
So anyway, so that's PriceGrabber.
I'm gonna show you another example
of an app we've been working on,
and this is a stock ticker app.
So the first thing you'll
see here when this comes up,
when I run it, this is an example of
the Try Buy feature.
So this basically is sort of an
example of how this would work.
If you're a third-party
developer and you launch an app,
you release an application on Central,
it'll have a built-in Try Buy facility
so that you can put an application
out for trial for as long as you
want and then put a price on it.
And then the user can either try or buy.
So as soon as the trial period expires,
they'd be forced to buy it or they
wouldn't be able to use it anymore.
Well,
let's say I'm still in the trial period,
so I'll hit Try.
And this is basically just a,
a fairly raw prototype
of the application.
But what this will do,
let's say I wanna look up a stock quote.
I'll put in about these guys.
And this is going,
querying a third-party web service,
pulling back the stock quote data.
So it gives me current quote,
change date, and then some additional
detail down below.
Select that, okay.
So it's fairly straightforward.
I mean, nothing, you know,
sort of what you'd expect
a stock taker to do.
But again,
a little more efficient than you
could do with a web-based application.
But what's interesting
about this is I can also...
The first step is to set an alert so that
if I wanted to set a target price or sort
of a stop price on a particular stock,
I could set up a notification
and it would proactively,
if the stock hit that price,
it would proactively notify me in the
console using the notification feature.
So again, a way of making the
application a little smarter,
a little more aware,
and adding a little bit
of value for the user.
[Transcript missing]
I think this is a good example of,
you know,
since this is such a lightweight,
sort of, you know,
concise little application,
it's a good candidate for what
we're calling tiles or pods or these
things that appear up in the console.
So this is just a sort of
boiled down version of the...
of the application.
So let's see how JetBlue is doing.
So again, similar sort of thing,
but just gives you a very nice little,
handy little utility application
that you can use to do sort
of quick queries like that.
Let's see,
so let's keep moving along here.
Here's a prototype of a weather
application we've been working on,
and this is using AccuWeather.
So what you get here is basically, again,
fairly straightforward.
You can just look up whether for
any location and it'll accept...
[Transcript missing]
and I can have up to,
I think it's up to 10 weather forecasts.
You can see as I flip through these,
it's fairly efficient 'cause this
is all happening on the client side.
So once this data is
cached in the application,
all this is happening locally.
Now, let's say I wanna just
keep an eye on the weather.
What I just did was I hit tile here,
and that could launch...
So I can basically just take
this little weather forecast,
sort of pin it to my desktop
and keep an eye on it,
and it'll automatically refresh,
you know, on a set interval.
So you can see now I've got two
things going on in my console here.
I've got the AccuWeather application
and the stock application.
And you can have sort of an indefinite
number of these things over time.
So it gives you a way of creating
applications that can have a little
persistence on the desktop and take
advantage of the runtime environment to
do things like polling and notification
and just create a little more of
a rich experience for the user.
And I think what's really,
the really interesting opportunity
with these applications is the ability,
because you're in this single session
state in the central environment,
opens up all kinds of possibilities
for these applications to talk to each
other and to share data with each other.
You can actually permit one
application to expose its
data to another application.
So for instance, if you were,
I don't know, looking up a movie time,
you could add it to your
calendar very easily.
So you could take, you know,
the calendar being another application
that might exist at some point.
And I think that's really interesting.
There are all kinds of
opportunities like that.
For instance,
let's say you're thinking of,
I don't know, traveling somewhere.
You know,
you might be able to look up the
weather and get a map to a location and,
you know, add that to a shared calendar
that you might send out to people.
So there's all kinds of opportunities
to share data and create,
and basically it gives you an environment
where applications can talk to each
other and be sort of aware of each other.
Which is something that's just very
difficult to do with traditional
web-based applications where
you're really in much more of a
siloed mode where each application
needs to exist separately.
So those are just a couple of examples.
We talked about the App Finder.
So I thought I'd just show you the
working version of this real quick.
This is just a sort of sample,
a couple of applications
that are in there now.
This is a sort of a demo prototype
for a Homeland Security application.
And I don't know if this will
actually see the light of day or not,
but it's sort of an interesting idea.
You could just get a-- you could
see Tom Ridge's vase and get a--
[Transcript missing]
So that's where we're at.
These are just a few of the applications.
I hope this gives you just some idea of
some of the things that are possible.
These are all, you know,
somewhat prototype-y.
There's several other applications
that are currently in development
that should ship when the final
version of Central goes out.
But hopefully this gives you
some idea of some of the things
that we're thinking about,
and hopefully you can come up
with better ideas than these.
Anyway, so I think that's all I've got.
I'm going to turn it over to Mike here,
who's going to tell us a little
more about developing in Central.
Thanks, Alex.
Can I go back to the slides?
Thank you.
So what I'm going to do is give you
a little overview of how all of this
works and show you a little bit how to
build a really simple application using
the Central framework and environment.
First of all,
I want to give you an overview of
what the file format of Flash is.
It's called SWIFT,
which stands for Small Web Format.
That is what kind of basically
is the heart of Flash.
And when you create something
using the Flash authoring tool,
you're actually creating a SWIFT file.
It's basically the native format.
It's a compiled binary file that
contains bytecode and media that's
been compiled by the authoring tool.
And so there's a number of different
tools that create SWIFT content.
Macromedias is kind of like the
keeper of that format currently.
And it's an open format that has
basically become the de facto standard
for doing rich media on the web.
And Central is our next step to taking
things outside of the web browser and
more into the desktop environment.
And the primary scripting language of
Flash is what we call ActionScript.
It's based upon ECMA 262
with extensions for the
Flash document object model or DOM.
And it's the same exact scripting
language that you would use for
JavaScript inside of a web browser.
So the
Central Application Architecture is
made up of four major parts.
There's the application shell,
the console,
the central user interface components,
and a number of different Swift files
that kind of broker that data back
and forth for you as a developer
so that you don't have to do kind
of a lot of the dirty work needed
to make these applications and
pieces work together properly.
So the main central parts are the
main application that you create,
the tiles,
and these things that we call agents.
And agents are kind of like invisible
background processes that allow you
to kind of broker data back and forth
between all these different parts.
So all of this is built,
as I said before,
on top of the Flash Player with
some things added on top of it.
And those things are, first of all,
something that's very exciting
to Mac users is we added a lot
of performance enhancements,
not only on Windows but
on the Macintosh as well,
to make it run a lot better.
We've had AltaVec enhancements for
graphics and alpha channels and
things that in the past have been
significantly slower on the Mac.
And now we have parity
between Windows and Mac for
that kind of performance.
So that's something that
makes Mac users very happy.
We've added native web service
APIs so that you can call WSDL and
you can make direct SOAP calls
without having to go through,
as you do today,
through flash remoting or some
type of gateway on the server side.
We've also added,
because of the fact that we
don't have to worry so much about
the size of the Flash Player,
we've added regular expression
APIs so that you can do lots of more
advanced string manipulation that
you'd have to do when you're bringing
in large data sets from the web.
And we've also made it so that,
because you're not in the browser,
you don't have the ability
to kind of cache data.
We've given you APIs where you
can manually cache that data.
And we've also made it so that
we have a direct connection
to an e-commerce system.
So if you want to sell your applications
or do transactional processing,
we do that for you.
[Transcript missing]
And then the next time the person
comes up and opens the application,
they immediately get back to that point.
Excuse me.
So here's a quick kind of
stack diagram that shows what's
actually going on inside Flash.
So at the most basic level is
the native operating system.
Mac, Windows,
a device such as Pocket PC or
any other device that comes along
that can run the Flash player,
such as Nokia handhelds,
all those kind of things that we
have the Flash player running on.
And the next thing up is
the Flash standalone player.
And it's basically taking the runtime
version that you have inside the browser
and it's wrapped around an executable
that kind of brokers and holds this data.
And sitting on top of that is
something we call the controller,
which is a Swift movie that then kind of,
that does all of the controlling of,
you know, what messages are gonna be
sent between what windows,
opening new windows,
opening new consoles,
getting data from the server side,
storing preferences.
Sitting on top of that is the
primary areas as a developer
where you can build something.
As a developer,
you can build your own application
that sits inside the app shell,
you can build your own tiles
that sit inside the console,
and you can build your own agents
that sit inside the agent manager.
It deals with all these invisible,
persistent background processes.
So, like I said,
applications contain three primary parts.
So there's an XML product definition.
So there's an XML file called the product
XML that says this is what this file,
this is what this application is.
It contains this size, this width,
these contents.
The next part of it is the actual
Swift that you compiled using
the authoring tool that has
all of your application logic,
your graphics, your video, your audio,
all the things you can do in Flash.
And the last thing is kind of the
icon that represents that inside
of the central application runtime.
It's kind of hard to see,
but this is basically an example
of what a product XML file
is and what it presents.
It kind of gives you
data upon who created it,
what time it was, and all the things that
represent your application.
So, to Central, this is your application.
This is kind of the metadata that
wraps up what is an application
that you've built and what
the application needs to do.
So, anytime we add something
to the Central framework,
you will define it using
the product XML file,
and that's how you kind of tell
the system what you want to do
and how you want to build it.
So, basically,
a tricky thing that came along when we
tried to kind of build this environment
where we have multiple Flash movies
all communicating to each other was
people had never done that before.
Typically,
when you build some Flash content,
you're building a single Flash movie
running inside of a web browser,
and that's all you're worried about.
You might be doing some animation,
you might be building an ad banner,
you might be building some type of,
you know, simple web service application.
But you're not really worried
about having two different movies
communicate and share persistent data.
In order to solve that problem,
in Flash Player 6, we added something
called Local Connection,
which allows separate Flash movies
to then communicate to each other
over kind of a global space.
So,
you can actually have Flash movies that
are running on top of the desktop or
they could be running inside the browser,
and they can then send data
back and forth to each other.
So, this allows us to then have
multiple elements of a Flash,
you know,
kind of runtime that are written entirely
in a scripting language rather than us
having to build everything in kind of a
very low-level language like C or C++.
We can actually build it in our
higher-level ActionScript language
so that things are more
portable and changeable.
So, we can write our framework once,
and it will run on multiple platforms.
We don't have to worry about
having to report everything to
Windows and Mac and a device.
So, we can actually build it in a very
low-level language like C or C++.
low-level action script language so that
things are more portable and changeable.
So, we can write our framework once,
and it will run on multiple platforms.
We don't have to worry about
having to report everything to
Windows and Mac and a device.
Mac on a device, everything will work
exactly the same way.
So basically everything that you
write as an application developer,
it's the same kind of framework
that we have to go through
at Macromedias to build this.
So as we add more and more frameworks
and more and more abilities,
the Central framework becomes more
powerful for us and also becomes
more powerful for developers
as we start drilling down more
into the operating system.
So that drilling down is actually
being done entirely by the controller.
And the controller is the one that
actually talks to the Flash player,
and that's what talks
to the operating system.
So if we want to send a notice and we
want to make the icon in the dock bounce,
you do that through an ActionScript call.
If you want to do that,
if you want to add a new application,
we do that through ActionScript.
Rather than you having to write that
in kind of a lower level language,
it's all done in our
higher level language.
And the controller is what does that.
And as we expose more and more APIs,
those get exposed through the controller
and through kind of all the standard
APIs that we document as part of our SDK.
So it manages what application
shells are running,
what is currently focused,
all the kind of dirty work of what's
going on and making an application behave
like an application that often people
have to deal with and kind of manage.
We kind of do all that for
you inside the controller.
So all you have to worry about is
building a really great experience.
You don't have to worry about making
sure that you have application focus
and dealing with all these kind of
little dirty things that you have to
do to make an application work well.
So the next thing as part
of the framework is agents.
And agents are basically,
they have no visual representation.
They're background processes that allow
you to make script-only connections to
data services on the web and let you have
persistent data for your applications.
So if I'm going to build a weather
application and I want to hook
it up to my calendar and say,
you know, we're only gonna go out on
Saturday if it's sunny and warm,
I can make it so that the
calendar application knows,
it talks to the weather application and
says that the weather's over 80 degrees,
book this trip and book this event with
my friends and send a notice out to them.
So all that kind of communication
is going through agents.
So each application has its
own agent and each one then
can communicate with others.
So they can open up kind of channels
of communication to each other.
And that again is managed by
the controller and something
called the agent manager.
And when you're in your product XML,
basically if you want to have an agent,
you just define this
line here and you say,
I have an agent, it's got this name,
and this is the Swift that
contains that logic.
The next major part is the console.
This is a screenshot.
This is actually a later version of the
prototype than what we showed up there.
It's our current thinking of
what it's going to look like.
Basically, it's your persistent area
where each application lives
and resides in the desktop.
The same way as you have any
other persistent application
running in your desktop,
you can build that kind of
environment and run it here.
If you want to give people information
and the latest up-to-date data,
that's what goes here.
Same thing with notices.
They go inside of this kind of persistent
area that runs on your desktop.
That's kind of fully controllable
over you of where it lives and how
big it is and what's inside of it.
and what we call each of those elements.
The first part is called tiles,
and that's basically the framework
for consistent desktop presence.
And for instance,
you can have a weather tile
that shows your local weather,
and basically, or you could have any
type of application,
and those tiles are basically configured
over what you see inside them.
Could be either configured within
themselves or configured by the
application that created them.
So if I have a weather application and
I'm looking at the weather for Chicago,
and I say I want to monitor that,
I can say, "Here,
save a tile." It'll automatically,
excuse me, add that tile to the console,
and it will contain the latest
information that you had for Chicago.
So you're not having to go back
and forth and reconfigure it.
That data can be sent along and
persisted across from different
elements of the central framework.
The next part is notices.
This is another screenshot of
some current prototypes of what
we think notices will look like.
Basically, you'll have this kind of
information about each application.
I basically want to say,
"Tell me when the Animatrix DVD comes
out." It will come up and say,
"The Animatrix DVD is
out." Click on the notice.
It will open up that application
and give you all the data.
Maybe you could buy the DVD.
You could go check it out and
get all the latest information.
It's really giving you up-to-date,
the latest information.
They can be triggered,
and those are all triggered
by events within an agent.
And the last part is
the application shell,
which is kind of your primary
representation of where you build
an application inside of Central.
And it's where not only
your application resides,
but the end user, where they store their
collections of applications.
So if they've gone all over the
web and they've found a whole
bunch of applications they like,
that's where they're always
going to go to get them.
That's where they launch
their applications.
That's where they find new applications.
And we provide APIs within that
for changing the window size,
the position of it,
getting events from the user
when they resize the window
so you can deal with layout,
getting information about when they're
typing certain keyboard events so you
know the index of your tab ordering.
You have information over
the status bar preferences,
knowing when the window opens and closes.
You also have notification as to when
the network connection is lost or open.
So if you want to build an application,
you have an application that
runs both online and offline,
but you want to make sure that it gives
the user some notification of that.
Or you start, instead of going and
querying a web service,
you're querying local data.
You can first check and see if,
am I actually connected to
the web with a single call?
Without having to kind
of do that yourself,
as you would have to do
inside of a web browser.
and you can also deal
with setting notices,
agents, and creating and removing tiles.
So after you've gone through
and done all this stuff and
you've built a full application,
the next thing you want to do is
you want to package that up so that
you can distribute it on the web.
And the way you do that is you build
kind of what's called an installer SWIFT,
and we give kind of a basic
framework for how to do this.
This SWIFT resides inside of your
website or any website where you
want to distribute your application.
Basically,
it points at a product XML file which
describes what your application is,
where it comes from,
the dimensions of it,
all the kind of metadata about it.
And when you click on the install button,
it reads that XML file.
It then kind of sends a
message to the player saying,
"Do they have the central
runtime?" If they don't,
it goes and downloads it,
puts it on their machine, launches it,
runs it,
and all of a sudden comes up your
application focused forward and,
you know, if you want,
immediately will be
there for them to use.
And that's the entire
installation process.
It's very straightforward and easy to do,
and you can build whatever user
interface you want for the installation
process because all it is is a
Flash movie that's triggering some
native events with inside Flash.
And you can also, basically,
if you don't want to do it yourself and
you want to get a larger distribution,
you can say, "This is my application.
Put it up inside the Macromedia
app finder." And everybody
who comes to Macromedia.com,
the millions of people every day,
can go and check out your application
and you don't have to worry about
being the one that's distributing it.
It's going to be entirely
distributed by Macromedia.
The next major part is the
user interface components.
So this is something that's kind of
been involving pretty rapidly in the
last year or so with Macromedia and
with Flash is people are trying to
not just build animation anymore.
They're not just building
simple multimedia.
They're trying to actually build real
applications that have the kind of
look and feel of an operating system
and behave the way people expect.
So part of that was our first initiative
to build components and user interface
frameworks to make that possible.
And so part of that,
we give you a bunch of standard
user interface frameworks
that you kind of expect,
so you don't have to go
and build them yourself.
And what we call these frameworks,
the name for them is Halo.
And Halo kind of gives you a
consistent look and feel across
not only Macromedia tools,
but all the content
that's built using them.
And so you don't have to go
and kind of do that work.
And all these things are
hosted by Macromedia.com in
a runtime shared library.
Runtime shared libraries are,
rather than having all the
assets inside of your Swift file,
are coming from a remote
location and then instantiated.
So rather than you having to
go and do that every time,
it automatically gets it from Macromedia.
And rather than having to
download those every single time,
you automatically get them.
And when we update them
and we change them,
you automatically get it.
And it keeps the size of your
applications much smaller.
So you're not having to include
the data for what a checkbox is
or a radio button every single
time you build an application.
So the way you consume and store data
inside Central is primarily via XML,
and that's something that has been in
the Flash Player for several revisions,
but has been focused and improved
upon over the last two releases.
And in Flash Player 6 and
in the Central Player,
we've added significant performance
enhancements to make XML data
retrieval and manipulation much faster,
and much more the best way to do
things rather than dealing with
kind of native objects inside Flash,
which can be cumbersome.
And we also have given you native
web service support so that you can
take structured XML data that you're
getting from a server and then do
something with it that's intelligent.
And then you can take that data,
store it inside of a local shared object,
And then the final thing that I referred
to before was that you can now cache
that data locally on your machine.
So it can be anything.
It can be an image, a JPEG, a video,
and you can store it locally.
So if someone wants to
download a movie and watch it,
you don't have to download
it every single time.
You can say cache that thing
once it's finished downloading.
Next time they come on,
if they're online or offline,
it's going to give them that data.
So now I want to kind of show you,
I think, I believe, yeah,
I'm going to show how you
actually built something for this.
So I'm going to kind of step through what
the basics are and then show you some
code examples inside the authoring tool.
So the basics of building
something inside Central,
and some of you may be familiar with
how you build applications inside Flash,
is you basically want to build
inside the first frame of your movie,
you're going to be putting
some action scripts.
And the first thing you do is you
kind of tell Central where I am,
who I am,
that I am a Central application,
and that I expect to be getting messages
from the overall Central framework rather
than just me being a web application.
So you kind of have to tell it via
this kind of initialization operation.
You say, you know, I'm inside Central.
Please start giving me messages.
And once you are finished getting
those messages and you are fully loaded
inside of the Central environment,
Central is going to call you with
a function called onActivate.
And that's basically going to tell you
I'm fully loaded inside of Central.
You can now do whatever you want.
Have fun.
So for installation,
what you have to do is you have
to create a product XML file,
or you can modify one
from the development kit.
You place your app Swift,
your product XML, your icons,
and your installer on your server,
and you make sure they're all in the
same directory or using relative paths.
And then you basically
click on that button,
install it, and it gets put into the site
of the Central environment,
and I'll show you how that works shortly.
And another thing is,
like I've discussed before,
local connection is really something
that you want to be able to learn
how to use and become more familiar
with if you're not already.
And basically,
it's a simple API that allows you to
open up a connection to another file,
to another Swift file.
And this is kind of a simple
example of someone having an
agent that's a stock agent.
You want to make a connection to it,
and you want to call a function
that's called getTicker.
So that's what basically is here,
and you're passing a basic argument.
This allows you to communicate between
your application and the agent,
between your application and a tile,
or between the tile and the agent.
All of that communication
goes over local connection.
You can also use this to debug.
So if you want to actually have
information being sent to another window,
basically saying the kind
of state of your application
that is not something visual,
you can use it for debugging as well.
So, in order to add a tile,
here's some information about how
you would add a tile inside of Flash.
Basically, you create a new Swift that
represents your tile.
You set up the phone call the same way as
you did inside of the first application.
You say, like, basically,
initialize this tile.
Central goes and initializes it,
calls back, saying, "Okay, you're done.
You're loaded.
Now do whatever you want to do
on activate." Very similar to
how you build an application.
And you install, basically,
you add a line about the fact that this
tile exists inside your product XML.
and you can have as many tiles
as you want for application.
So tiles,
so here's some examples of things
you might want to use tiles for.
You want to use them for
live monitoring of push data,
such as current stock prices,
current scores, any type of persistent,
constantly updating data.
And you can use it to get a subset
of an application's functionality.
Rather than having to go
into the full application,
if you want to get just a
little bit of information about
like my latest calendar data,
that's where I can show it to you,
rather than having to
launch the full app.
[Transcript missing]
Use agents for persistent
monitoring of data.
And this is the actual data
set that you're getting from,
that you're going to be giving
to your tiles and applications.
The actual tiles are more like the view,
and this is kind of the model
that's going back and forth,
and the controller that's kind
of giving you all that data,
and it's pushing it into a tile,
or it's pushing it into an application.
And you can also use agents for
communication with other apps.
Not only apps inside Central,
but apps inside of a web browser as well.
You don't want to use them
for processor intensive tasks
because these type of things,
like things like iterative functions
that are going over and over,
because the user can't see these things.
They're going to be running.
You could be creating an
invisible process that is
slowing the entire machine down,
and the user has no way to stop
it without quitting Central,
and you're basically going to
muck up the entire environment.
So here's a little bit of code about
how you actually would create a notice.
And basically,
you create a new notice object.
And this is basically a callback from
the agent manager that basically says,
you know, this is basically going to say,
I'm going to add a notice
that says this data saying,
this is really simple, it's just saying,
a notice came up and
it has no data in it.
So this is a really simple thing.
It's not actually giving you anything.
It's just a kind of core framework
for how you actually create a notice.
And you want to use
them to notify a user.
And you don't want to use
them to display errors,
you don't want to use them to display
connection notifications like 404s,
and you want to be polite with them.
You don't want to be constantly
coming up with notices.
You can also create custom preferences
with inside of your application.
So if you want to be setting
certain particular information
about your application and make it
so people can configure notices,
configure tiles,
configure what all the kind of persistent
things that they have no control over,
you want to give them a way to visually
do that and as a full kind of framework
for how you do that with Inside Central.
And you don't want to use
preferences to create preferences
that are already done by Central,
because Central already has kind
of a core preferences where you
can set up global things like your
location and your information.
And that information is then
persistent and available to you.
So once the user defines
their name and information,
you can query that and get their email
address and all that kind of stuff if
they've made that available to you.
So offline data management,
I've said this a little bit before,
it's done with shared objects,
and each application has a limit of 100K.
[Transcript missing]
and basically that data kind
of sits persistently on the
hard drive and never goes away.
And it's basically best for the kind of
internal data that you're storing that
you want to make sure that always comes
up every time that application is loaded.
And it's stored in a textual way.
Local Internet URLs is basically
anything that you can pull off
the Internet you can store.
You can even pull things down that
aren't even readable by Flash.
So it's a very open way for you to
cache data and cache information.
And there's a limit of
how much you can store.
By default, it's 20 megabytes.
Same story with if you
go over that limit,
it's going to warn you, say, you know,
this application is trying to
request more data than you need
than you currently have set,
and do you want to allow that?
And this is a short example,
a short explanation
of how that API works.
It downloads, it begins,
once you call it,
it immediately starts making that call.
You can access it through
normal ActionScript methods,
saying, is this loaded, when it's done,
do something with it.
So it's the same way that you
deal with any type of loaded data,
same way you deal with loading XML,
same way you deal with
loading an image inside Flash.
It's the same way you deal
with that inside of Central.
So if you know how to do it in Flash,
same exact skills.
and just kind of telling you
basically in the first beta,
each request is a new HTTP stream.
And basically in beta two,
we start queuing that up
like the browser does.
It's important also to show that your
application is requesting data because
it's not something that we automatically
come up with a progress dialogue and say,
you know,
you're downloading a bunch of data.
So your application may seem
like nothing's going on.
You need to make sure that you
actually are showing progress of your
application and giving the user feedback.
And we're actually,
we do provide APIs for you to set some
information in the status bar that of
the current status of your application,
how much is loading, what's going on.
And we really encourage people to
use that to give the user kind of
a consistent method of feedback
rather than you having to do
that every single time yourself.
Offline behavior.
Talked about this a little bit already.
You basically will get a callback
and you're going to check to
see whether or not the network
has gone online or offline.
And you can use that to properly
set up your application to make sure
that when that callback gets notified
that you either switch to using local
data or you make sure that you're not
making requests to the server side.
It's fairly straightforward.
And sharing data between apps,
you're going to be using
agents over local connections.
And updating your application
is very straightforward.
All you have to do on your server,
where you have your product XML,
increment your version number from
one to two or any number above.
Every week, the central environment on
the person's machine will go
and check that product XML.
If the number is greater,
it's going to go and
download your new version.
So all of that kind of update
functionality that's fairly
difficult to deal with is all
handled by the environment itself.
So now I'm going to switch over to
the computer and show you how to
build a really simple application.
First thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to open up the Flash authoring tool.
And I'm going to open up
a simple application here.
So this application here is a very,
very simple application.
All it does is has two text
fields and two buttons.
And the way that you
do that inside Flash,
if you want to add
text fields or buttons,
is basically you have...
One second here.
You have a text control here,
and you can basically drag out and
create new text fields as you please.
and then you can define them,
give them instance names,
everything you want to do.
So I already have two created here.
One is input text and one is stock info.
That's right here is
defined their instance name.
So that's how I'm going to
access it via ActionScript to
know how to give it information,
how to change it.
And I also have two push
button components here.
One is going to actually make the
request to get the stock information.
And this one is going to like just test
that I've properly created the notice.
and you can see that I've also
given both of them instance names.
The way you add new
components is you over here,
you have the Flash UI components
panel and you can simply click and
drag new user interface elements.
And we give you a bunch of pre-made
ones for Central that give you that
look and feel and have all the kind
of proper functionality for you to
deal with remote shared libraries.
So you don't have to deal
with any of that work.
So if I go over here into the
first frame of my movie and
I open it up and say Actions,
I can see all of the script
that makes up this movie.
And explain it to your hands.
Can everybody see that all right there?
So basically the first function
that you're going to have
here is called onActivate.
And this is what gets called when
your application has been fully
loaded into the Central environment.
Basically you get a callback that
basically gives you a shell object,
and that shell object contains all
of the APIs that make up Central.
So when you're inside this environment,
you always refer to where
you live as the shell.
And in this particular example,
the first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to add an agent.
And that agent is the stock checker.
So inside of the product XML,
I defined a stock checker agent,
and I can refer to it now
within the scripting environment
and say add that agent,
and that agent is another Swift file,
which I'll show it to you in a second.
[Transcript missing]
The first thing you'll
notice is the ticker symbol,
which is basically going and checking
to see if there's a new ticker symbol.
And I'm telling that
button when it's released,
it's going to make a
new local connection.
[Transcript missing]
So that information I'll show in a
second here after I go through this.
And this is basically all of the
information for displaying that data.
So once I get that data back,
I'm going to then take that text
field and fill it with data that
I got back from the local connection,
which is what this is here.
Stock info dot text,
the text value of that
stock info text field,
I'm going to give it the value
of the price of the stock that
I got back from a web service.
And right here,
this Do Test Notice button is
when I click on the test notice,
it's going to actually go through
the process of adding a new notice
and giving a really simple notice
that just says New Test Notice.
And this is kind of all the
different properties of that notice.
Whether or not it's going to
show an alert in the tray,
and this is basically setting the
progress bar at the bottom of the shell.
And this is the same thing.
If I get a notice event,
I'm going to set the progress
bar to be back to the way it was.
And also, there's a little example
here of the actual logo that
I'm using inside of here.
It is a little central logo.
I'm saying take that thing,
the first time it loads up,
add it to my local Internet cache so
I can give it any type of path to a file
and it'll store it locally on my machine.
And then in the future,
all I gotta do is refer
to that same path.
And if it's locally cached already,
rather than fetching it from the web,
it's gonna fetch it from my cache first.
So it's always, whenever you do a load
movie call in Flash,
rather than in the way it was in Flash,
where it would always go
out and fetch the data,
the first thing it does is it
checks the local Internet cache
and then it goes out to the web.
And then the final call
here is basically saying,
this is the first thing that's
gonna be called when the
application is first loaded.
It's gonna say, "Hello,
I'm an application." and
Call me back in a second when I'm loaded.
So that's an empty application.
So when you actually build
an application in Flash,
so now I have to actually
publish this movie.
So I'm going to say, export movie,
which is gonna take this
Swift file and export it.
and I'm going to export it.
So now it created that movie.
It's not going to run
inside the environment.
So what I want to do now is take
that actual application and then
I want to install it in the Central.
So the way I do that is I have
this saver swift that I've created.
And basically inside of that saver swift,
I define the path to the product
XML that defines this application.
So if I open up this,
it shows the product XML for this
very simple empty application.
It just says what the version of it is,
what's the information about it,
who made it, what's the name of it,
where is its icons, and also where is the
source of this application.
The primary application
is called empty_app.swift,
which is what I just created.
And I also have defined that
I have an agent and a tile.
and so basically what I have
now is I open up this saver.html
and I'm going to go ahead
and click Save.
It goes and launches Central.
And it will go and ask me,
do I want to install that application?
And it uses all the data from the
product XML saying this is the version
of it and what domain it came from.
I can say, okay, it now installs it,
and then immediately takes
me to that application.
So here's the application that I have.
So when that application first started,
it actually also initiated an agent.
So I can right now,
I should be able to say,
give me the current stock
price of Macromedias.
It's going to go out, talk to that agent,
get some data from web service,
and return it back to
this text field here,
assuming that I did it correctly.
So the first thing it's gonna do is,
this application doesn't have the rights
to do that under our security model.
So it's gonna come up and say,
"Do I want to allow my local machine
to access this URL?" So I'm gonna say,
"Yes, allow it to do that."
- Where I can tell it
to always allow that.
And then if it's allowed,
it's gonna make the request, come back,
and then feed that data
into this text field.
There it goes.
So there's the current
Macromedias stock price.
So that's basically a very
simple application that I built.
So let me show you really quickly
how the actual agent was built.
So if I open up this app agent flaw,
this is the one that's being called by
the local connection in the other movie.
Basically, it says, you know,
it's the same thing as
I was showing before,
the way you build it, you just say,
onActivate, when this thing gets loaded,
it gets a callback
with the agent manager,
it's going to start an interval,
which is said interval,
it's going to say,
recursively go through and say,
load some data for me from the server.
and make a local connection to
the application that created it.
It's going to make a web service call.
So this is the APIs that
have been added to Flash.
Rather than in the past,
you had to kind of do it yourself,
you can now directly call a web service.
You just say new web service,
give it a WSDL file,
and that will come back to you
with an object that has all the
callbacks of that WSDL file.
So you just say stock
service dot do company info,
which is the callback
of that web service.
You give it,
and this one in particular has
a user ID and password of user,
any user, any password.
Give it the ticker symbol that
I entered in that text field.
Call it.
When I get a result back,
the same way as you deal with
any result from an XML file,
I'm then going to send that
local connection back to
Flash into the other movie,
from the agent into the
hosting application,
and I'm going to say,
call the function receive
ticker with the current price.
And that's the other function that I had
inside there was called receive ticker.
That then receives that data,
puts it in a text field.
So that is basically a very
simple stock ticker application.
And if I want to also,
in that application,
I can say test notice.
So there I just added a new notice.
If I had sound, you could hear it.
You could also see that the
doc item bounced for a second.
And I get notification basically
through the operating system as well.
And right here,
a notice came up saying here,
new test notice.
So that's the same notice information
that I set up inside the application.
Goes and does that,
goes through the framework,
uses the same data that you set in there.
So there we are.
I'm also having an advisory
that Homeland Security has
been gone to elevated.
So that's how you build the
basic elements of Central.
And from there,
you can build a whole wide
range of applications.
And those are kind of
the really basic things.
So can I go back to the slides?
So, I think given that,
I basically want to give you a quick idea
of where the state of the project is.
Currently, like Dave said, we're in beta.
We just got beta 2 today
after a lot of work,
and we're undergoing a lot of usability
and interface look and feel and
figuring out the best way to do this.
And we're going to have a public
release of the SDK and the environment
for all people to develop for
this in the end of the summer,
2003.
And we're going to launch
the platform for end users
towards the end of the year.
And if you want to get more
information about this,
you can go to the
Macromediacentraldevelopmentcenter.com,
which is listed up here,
or you can just go to
macromedia.com and look up Central.
And that's where you
can sign up for the SDK.
And here's our contact
information and for information,
it's all in here.
So, if you have any questions.